### File Format

**Fossil notebook** tells file format by file extension and may render differently. But for wiki, there is no file extension, therefore, it is by default treated as markdown.

Currently planned file format are:

- markdown (.md)
- todo.txt, todotxt or todo (.todo)
- plain (.txt)

Because markdown can have front matter, it can be used to assign format. For example, you can have a markdown file (.md) with a meta field __format: todotxt__ and the content is the standard todo.txt. In such case, this markdown will be rendered as Todo.txt. It would be useful for Wiki because wiki does not have file extension. Everything in Wiki is treated as markdown. But if a format field is assigned in Wiki, it can be used for other format.

Most CLI (command-line tool) cannot work with front matter, for example, plain-text accounting or Todo.txt tools. Therefore, only markdown file can have front matter. So if you want to save a file in certain format, use file extension to specify its format so that CLI can process them, or write them in markdown with front matter. In the latter case, the standard CLI probably cannot process them.

Known source code (.js, .html, etc.) will be renderred in plain text for now.

### Meta data at front matter

Front matter is marked by **---** (three dash characters) at first and last line of fronat matter. Meta data in front matter will be used for display notes differently.

#### Todo and due date

Any note with `todo: [status]` will be treated as a todo and show up in todo view. Status is a free text such as _checked_, _done_, _in-progress_.

Due date is marked as `due: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM@timezone`

To have many todos in a note, use todo.txt format, and save it with `.todo` file extension, or set `format: todo` in front matter.

#### Bookmark

If a note has a field __bookmark: true__, all links inside the note will show up in bookmark. It provides a way to keep bookmarks in **fossil notebook**. You can have a dedicate wiki with _bookmark:true_ and write links you want to save. Because how links work in markdown, there is only title and uri, no descripton or other information.
