---
title: 02.01 Introduction
---
**Fossil Notebook** is a note-keeping application on top of Fossil SCM. Fossil provides several advantages:

- version control
- synchronization to remote repository
- built-in web server
- wiki

In combination of Johnny.Decimal project organization and meta data in front-matter format, **fossil notebook** provides a versatile platform for personal knowledge management.

### Audience & Workflow

There is a niche market to write in plain text and view in graphic interface. For example, LaTeX allows people to write document in plain text and render them in graphic format; Jekyll generate blogs with graphical elements from markdown document in plain text. **Fossil notebook** aims to allow people to write in plain text and view in HTML.

The workflow would be:

1. Write in plain text locally
2. Commit and push to remote repository
3. View everywhere with web browser

Fossil SCM handles most of operation. Fossil notebook just add a layer of convenience on top of it.

### Usage

A fossil repository is a notebook by itself. This web app merely add a way to view the content of notebook more conveniently.

#### File structure

Organize your files in [Johnny.Decimal system](https://johnnydecimal.com/). Files will show up in **fossil notebook** the same as on file system.

#### Metadata in Front matter

Meta data is stored in front matter of markdown document, either in wikis or files. It provides information to be view in different format. For example. a **todo** field suggests it is a todo and can be viewed by its status. A due date field allows some notes to be display in calendar or in chronological order.

Currently planned meta data are:

- todo: progress (checked, done, delayed, in-progress)
- due_at: a due date (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM@zone)
- bookmark: true
- tags: tags in array

#### Wiki

While it is not possible to directly write files in Fossil, wiki can be created and modifed. It serves as a place to draft notes.

__Please note that wiki in Fossil cannot be deleted. Emtpy wiki will not show up, but is not deleted.__

#### Web server

Start the web server via `fossil server` command. Fossile notebook can be found at `/doc/trunk/00-09.System/01.App/index.html`

#### Configuration

Admin > Configuration > Index Page: set to /doc/trunk/00-09.System/01.App/index.html to load this web app as default page

Admin > Security Audit > Take it private: only logged-in users can see content

Admin > Access > Public pages: this gives exception to public users if this notebook is set to be private

Admin > Settings > th1-docs: checked so that the correct baseurl can be found

HTTPS: if you plan to put fossil repository in public-facing domain, please consider to add HTTPS support, either on fossil or a web server in front of fossil repository (fossil runs as CGI). I use Caprover to host fossil repository and it supports https with ease.

### Disvantages

1. Content needs to be committed to be served by fossil server.
2. Binary file cannot be previewed in browser. 

